PESTS
INSERT INTO PEST (scientificName, LaymansTerm, Effect, fileName) VALUES ('Leptocorisa oratorius f', 'Rice ear bug', 'Both adult and nymphs Leptocorisa Oratorius F suck the sap from individual grains that causes empty grains and discoloration. Possible causes of rapid multiplication of rice ear bugs are due to extensive weedy areas in the ricefield, wild grasses near canals, and staggered rice planting. The population most especially increases at the end of the rainy season. Leptocorisa Oratorius or rice ear bugs are considered a serious pest of rice, and they can reduce rice yield by 30%. For Adult Leptocorisa F are active during bright sunlight, specifically during the afternoon and early morning. On the other hand, the nymphs are often overlooked and blend with the foliage [1].','static/RiceEarBug.jpg');
INSERT INTO PEST (scientificName, LaymansTerm, Effect, fileName) VALUES ('Scotinophara coarctata', 'Rice black bug', 'Scotinophara coarctata or Rice black bug removes the sap of the rice plant that causes the leaf to turn brown, deadheart, and bugburn. Deadheart refers to the damaged tillers center turning brown and dying. For bugburn, it is a condition that turns the leaves into reddish-brown, resulting in crop loss. The damage of rice black bugs can range from severe to complete crop loss. During the daytime, the black bug can be found at the base of the plant. During the nighttime, they move up to the panicle. Black bugs can often be seen from seedling to maturity growth stage, and it is estimated that ten adult black bugs per hill can cause 35% crop losses [9] [10].' ,'static/RiceBlackBug.jpg');
INSERT INTO PEST (scientificName, LaymansTerm, Effect, fileName) VALUES ('Scirpophaga innotata', 'White stem borer', 'White stem borer can cause deadhearts or the dried-up central shoot of tillers, and whiteheads, which are discolored panicles with empty grains and can be pulled easily. The larva stage is the most destructive stage in which it damages the xylem and phloem of the plants. During the vegetative stage, Larva of the stem borer bore at the base of the plant, and for older plants, they bore at the upper nodes [25] [26].' ,'static/WhiteStemBorer.jpg');
INSERT INTO PEST (scientificName, LaymansTerm, Effect, fileName) VALUES ('Cnaphalocrocis medinalis', 'Rice leaf folder', ' Medinalis Rice leaf folder or roller damages the rice plant by folding the leaf longitudinally, creating white and transparent streaks on the blade, preventing the plant from undergoing photosynthesis. The use heavy use of fertilizer encourages rice leaf folders or rollers to multiply rapidly. Additionally, they occur in all rice environments. They can be active the whole year for tropical areas, and they commonly appear during rainy seasons [15] [16].','static/RiceLeafFolder.jpg');
INSERT INTO PEST (scientificName, LaymansTerm, Effect, fileName) VALUES ('No detection', 'No detection', 'No detection','static/NoImage.jpg');

PESTICIDES:
INSERT INTO PESTICIDE (name, type, description) VALUES ('Hang a source of foul odor', 'Other Control','Hanging a source of foul odor from captured pests or any animal carcass helps divert the pests’ attention and prevents attacks on rice plants. Instead of attacking the actual rice plant in the rice field, it attacks the hanged source of foul odor placed near the field. The farmer should ensure that the materials used on the source of the foul odor is biodegradable. Lastly, to dispose of the used hanged source, the farmer should burn them.');
INSERT INTO PESTICIDE (name, type, description) VALUES ('Light trapping', 'Other Control','Light trapping is a method that captures pests with the use of light. By placing light traps in the rice field, the pest would be attracted to light, and it helps minimize the pests from attacking the rice plant.');
INSERT INTO PESTICIDE (name, type, description) VALUES ('Weed control', 'Other Control', 'To minimize the multiplication of the pest, the farmer should maintain a clean environment in the rice field by removing the weeds around the rice plant.');
INSERT INTO PESTICIDE (name, type, description) VALUES ('Duck pasturing', 'Other Control','Placing ducks in the rice field contribute to eliminating the pests without necessarily using any pesticides. It is an organic method of controlling pests since ducks can consume snails, a variety of bugs, and insects. Ducks also help in providing nutrients to the soil, which can be considered a sustainable farming practice [11].');
INSERT INTO PESTICIDE (name, type, description) VALUES ('Raise the water level for 1-2 days', 'Other Control','Flooding the whole area during sidling stage with irrigation water to eliminate the larva, or eggs of the pests.');
INSERT INTO PESTICIDE (name, type, description) VALUES ('Use resistant varies', 'Other Control','Use resistant rice variety to avoid crop losses due to the specified pest.');
INSERT INTO PESTICIDE (name, type, description) VALUES ('Minimize application of nitrogen fertilizer', 'Other Control','This method is suggested by the technician from the department of agriculture in Cagwait. By minimizing nitrogen fertilizer use, the rice leaf folder is less likely to attack the rice plants.');
INSERT INTO PESTICIDE (name, type, description) VALUES ('Spray sugar solution','Other Control','This method is recommended by the technician from the department of agriculture of Cagwait. The purpose of spraying solution using sugar is to attract the ants so that they will attack the larva attached to the rice plant.');
INSERT INTO PESTICIDE (name, type, description) VALUES ('Carbonize rice hull','Other Control','Carbonize rice hull is made out of partial burning rice hull. It can be used as a fertilizer and pest control agent at the same time. This method is suggested by the technician of the department of agriculture in Cagwait in which carbonized rice hull should be applied during the seeding stage of the rice plants.');
INSERT INTO PESTICIDE (name, type, description) VALUES ('Metarhizium anisopliae','Biological Control','Metarhizium Anisopliae, also known as Entomophthora anisopliae is a biological insecticide to control many pests on crops. It is a fungus that grows naturally in soil which can cause disease in various insects in which it can infect 200 insect species, and it acts as a parasite [12].');
INSERT INTO PESTICIDE (name, type, description) VALUES ('Neem oil', 'Organic Control','Neem products have played an important role in managing sucking pests as an alternative to synthetic pesticides. It has an anti-repellant activity that makes neem oil, and its various formulation was widely used as biopesticides, especially in India [7]. Neem oil contains azadirachtin, a compound that interferes with insects life cycle, such as feeding, molting, mating, and egg-laying. Neem oil should be applied in the morning or evening where bugs are dominant. It is suggested that Neem oil should not be sprayed in the middle of the day [8]. For the application of neem oil, the farmer should follow the instruction indicated on the label.');
INSERT INTO PESTICIDE (name, type, description) VALUES ('Neem azal', 'Biological Pesticide','Neem Azal is a biological pesticide that is a naturally based anti-feeding insecticide, and it reduces the ability to produce pests offspring and breeding ability. It can control a wide range of pests without harming beneficial insects, which are dangerous to honeybees [23]. It was specifically developed to control sucking, chewing, and leaf-mining pests, and it is based on the natural ingredient of tropical neem trees [24].');
INSERT INTO PESTICIDE (name, type, description) VALUES ('Thiodan', 'Chlorinated Insecticide','Thiodan or Endosulfan is a chlorinated insecticide globally used since the 1950s to control insects for food and non-food crops. It has a unique mode of action which makes it useful. However, it can also affect beneficial insects. Endosulfan is a broad-spectrum nonsystemic contact and stomach insecticide effective for sucking, chewing, and boring insects. This pesticide is said to be neurotoxic to both insects and mammals, including humans. It is a chloride channel and inhibits calcium and magnesium ATPase, which are enzymes used in nerve impulses [2]. 
Thiodan is hazardous if swallowed, inhaled, or absorbed through the skin. It is suggested in case of contact, the farmer should immediately remove the contaminated cloth and flush skin or eye with plenty of water and seek a medical assistant if necessary. For disposal, it is recommended to keep it out of lake, streams, ponds, or any resources that is the home for fish and bird. Lastly, the empty gallon should not be re-used and destroyed by perforating or crushing [3]. 
');
INSERT INTO PESTICIDE (name, type, description) VALUES ('Imidacloprid', 'Systemic Insecticde','Imidacloprid is a systemic insecticide that means that the plant takes it from the soil or through the leaves. It is an insecticide used to mimic nicotine and is commonly used to control sucking insects, termites, soil insects, and fleas on pests. Imidacloprid makes the nervous system stop working properly, preventing it from sending normal signals, and it is more toxic to insects and invertebrates than to mammals and birds. Imidacloprid can rapidly be broken down by water and sunlight in which the pH and the temperature of the water cause the imidacloprid to speed up the breakdown process. However, it can still last for a month or years in the soil. Lastly, some possible side effects of imidacloprid on farmers from brief exposure are skin or eye irritation, breathlessness, dizziness, vomiting, or confusion [4].');
INSERT INTO PESTICIDE (name, type, description) VALUES ('Cartap hydrochloride', 'Systemic Insecticde','Cartap Hydrocloride is a system insecticide with contact and stomach action which blocks the nerve transmission and damages the nervous system of insects or pests. It is effective against pests that are mining in plants, and it is recommended to insecticide to control stem borer and rice leaf folder [22]. It is a nereistoxin analogue insecticide used to control chewing and sucking pests. There is a lack of data regarding its human health effects, but it is known to be moderately toxic and highly toxic to aquatic vertebrates [18].');
INSERT INTO PESTICIDE (name, type, description) VALUES ('Cypher', 'Pyrethroid Insecticide','Cypher is a pyrethroid insecticide used to control a range of insects or pests in agriculture and public health situations. Cypher can be applied through spraying equipment, applying 300-700 liters per hectare. Cypher is mixed readily with water, and the farmer should mix thoroughly before and during spraying. Pests resistance to cypher is caused by excessive use of the said insecticide. Hence, to prevent resistance, farmers should ensure that it strictly follows the label instruction. Rotating pesticides during the season can also help minimize insecticide resistance, and farmers should maintain good cultural practices. Cypher is a combustible liquid; hence farmers should ensure proper storage of the said insecticide. It is also harmful if swallowed, inhaled, or absorbed through the skin, which might cause mild skin irritation, and facial skin contact might cause temporary facial numbness [13]. Thus, it is recommended that farmers use proper PPE or personal protective equipment such as goggles, masks, gloves, longs-sleeve, long pants, etc.');
INSERT INTO PESTICIDE (name, type, description) VALUES ('Profenofos', 'Organophosphate Pesticide','Profenofos is an organophosphate (organic compound whose molecule contains one or more phosphate ester groups, especially a pesticide to this kind) pesticide used to control insect pests on crops. It is the most largely used organophosphorus pesticide used to control insect pests on crops. It is characterized by its pale, yellow color and strong garlic-like odor. However, since profenofos is an organophosphate pesticide, It is classified as moderately hazardous or toxicity class II by the World Health Organization [5]. The possible side effects of profenofos, according to the U.S Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), are nausea, confusion, and dizziness. If exposed to a higher dose of the profenofos, there is a chance of respiratory paralysis due to inhalation or ingestion of the pesticide, and worst it can cause fatality.
Additionally, profenofos can also cause organophosphorus poisoning, moderate skin, and eye irritation if not properly handled. Aside from its effects on humans, profenofos can be harmful for bees and fish in which bees are vulnerable due to their properties of profenofos [6]. To avoid the said effects of profenofos, it is recommended that the farmer should wear appropriate gear such as safety glasses, chemical-resistant gloves, respirators, standard pants, and long sleeves. 
');
INSERT INTO PESTICIDE (name, type, description) VALUES ('Acephate', 'Organophosphate Pesticide','Acephate is one of the organophosphate insecticides used for food crops in commercial or institutional facilities. It is sold in powdered, liquid, granules, tablets, and water-soluble packets, and for its usage, it is recommended to follow the instruction state in the label. Acephate can kill insects or pests once it enters into their body by touching or eating. Once the chemical enters the pests body, the pests body will turn it into a chemical called methamidophos. Acephate is applied to the plants. Once the pests ingest the treated plants, then they also ingest the acephate that was applied. Acephate and methamidophos affect the nervous system of pests or insects, causing over-activity on its nerves, muscle, or brain. Additionally, acephate is less toxic to mammals since the bodies of mammals do not turn acephate into methamidophos. However, exposure to acephate can cause signs and symptoms such as nausea, diarrhea, abdominal cramps, shaking, sweating, rapid heart rate, dizziness, and confusion. It usually occurs within a minute or hours after its exposure [14].');
INSERT INTO PESTICIDE (name, type, description) VALUES ('Chlorpyrifos', 'Organophosphate Pesticide','Chlorpyrifos is an organophosphate insecticide used to control different kinds of pests. It is harmful once touched, inhaled, or eaten in which it can kill the pest by blocking an enzyme that controls messages that travels the nerve cell of the pest, which prevents its nervous system from sending normal signals. For the amount of usage of chlorpyrifos, it is suggested that farmers should follow the instruction indicated in the label. The effects of chlorpyrifos can affect a persons nervous system, pets, and other animals, similar to the effect on the target pest. The symptoms can appear within a minute or an hour after the exposure and last for four days or more. A small amount of exposure to chlorpyrifos can cause a runny nose, tears, and increased saliva or drool. Other possible side effects are headache, nausea, and dizziness. For serious exposure, it can cause vomiting, abdominal muscle cramps, tremors, weakness, muscle twitching, and loss of coordination [27].');
INSERT INTO PESTICIDE (name, type, description) VALUES ('Jump', 'Insecticide','Jump is an insecticide based on Fipronil phenyl pyrazole insecticide that effectively controls stem borer and leaf folder in rice crops. Jump effectively controls pests with a low dosage rate, which has a lower impact on the environment. It is an ingestion toxicant that affects the nerve impulse transmission of the pests. Additionally, it has shown demonstrable plant growth enhancement effects in many crops [17].');
INSERT INTO PESTICIDE (name, type, description) VALUES ('Alpha-cypermethrin', 'Insecticide','Alpha-Cypermethrin is an insecticide used to control chewing and sucking insects for crops and non-crops. It has a high level of effectiveness in controlling a wide range of pests for crops. It is a widely used pyrethroid insecticide, and it is relatively volatile in which it does not leach to groundwater, but it is considered a serious water pollutant. Alpha-cypermethrin is not toxic to birds, but it is highly toxic to aquatic organisms and bees [18].');
INSERT INTO PESTICIDE (name, type, description) VALUES ('Abamectin', 'Insecticide','Abamectin is an insecticide that attacks the nervous system of insects which causes paralysis within an hour. It is active once eaten and has maximum mortality of 3-4 days [19]. It is a naturally occurring insecticide that was derived from a soil microorganism called Streptomyces avermitilis [20]. Abamectin might cause skin allergic reactions, asthma, or breathing difficulties and can damage organs for prolonged exposure. Thus, farmers should wear proper personal protective equipment to prevent those hazards from happening [21].');
INSERT INTO PESTICIDE (name, type, description) VALUES ('No detection', 'No detection','No detection');

PESTICIDE RECOMMENDATION 
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (1,1);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (1,2);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (2,2);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (3,2);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (1,3);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (2,3);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (4,3);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (2,4);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (2,5);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (3,5);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (4,5);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (2,6);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (4,6);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (4,7);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (4,8);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (3,9);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (2,10);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (1,11);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (3,12);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (4,12);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (1,13);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (1,14);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (3,15);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (4,15);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (2,16);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (1,17);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (2,18);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (3,19);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (3,20);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (4,20);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (4,21);
INSERT INTO PESTICIDERECOMMENDATION (pest_id, pesticide_id) VALUES (4,22);

ADMININFO
INSERT INTO ADMININFO (username, password, phone_number, firstDetectionSchedule, secondDetectionSchedule, thirdDetectionSchedule, fourthDetectionSchedule, fifthDetectionSchedule) VALUES ('user','admin', '639658356298', '06:00:00', '09:00:00', '12:00:00', '14:00:00','16:00:00');


